[Shri Mataji parla con uno yogi]
Yogi: “Shri Mataji ha appena detto
molto chiaramente
che dovremmo smetterla
di preoccuparci degli aerei.
È tutto organizzato, tutto predisposto,
non c’è da preoccuparsi
né per i biglietti, né per i voli”.
Per favore, smettete di preoccuparvi,
se ne occupa Dio
– questo ferisce veramente Shri Mataji.
Shri Mataji ha appena detto che la ferisce
quando pensiamo e continuiamo
a preoccuparci dei nostri aerei.
Tutto è stato organizzato,
non cè niente di cui preoccuparsi.
I sahaja yogi non dovrebbero
scadere al livello
della gente comune: in fin dei conti
che cosa vi accadrà?
Direi che coloro che si sono preoccupati
dovrebbero entrare
in meditazione profonda,
e capire che stanno insultando se stessi.
Voi siete santi. Perché dovreste
preoccuparvi di quale aereo prenderete
o non prenderete?
Questo dimostra che il vostro livello
è molto basso,decisamente;
quello di tutti coloro
che si sono preoccupati.
Siete venuti qui
sotto la mia protezione e tornerete
indietro sotto la mia protezione.
Sono stata così male questa mattina che
pensavo che non avremmo celebrato il puja.
Dovete capire che siete
parte integrante del mio essere;
io vi ho messi nel mio corpo
e dovete comportarvi correttamente.
In un giorno così propizio
ci siamo riuniti tutti qui
per celebrare questo puja speciale.
Direi che si dovrebbe definire
un Mahalakshmi Puja, poiché
ha a che vedere con l’industria
di questo paese e del mondo intero.
Tutte le imprese umane,
se non sono connesse con Dio,
non possono raggiungere un livello
e una condizione di perfezione.
Ecco perché adesso ci sono problemi
in Occidente: nonostante (lì)
la gente sia considerata
molto intelligente, molto brillante,
molto dotata e ben istruita,
abbiamo la recessione e altro
poiché mancano di equilibrio.
Non si rendono conto che esiste il potere
di Dio che fa funzionare tutto e che,
quando lo si trascura,
questo è quel che vi accade.
Ora, per ogni impresa di questo tipo che intraprendiamo, per prima cosa dobbiamo prelevare una grande quantità di materia (prima) dalla Madre Terra.
first of all we have to use a lot of material from the Mother Earth,
but if it is taken for a proper purpose, for constructive things
and for helping others, with a balance,
then Mother Earth can think, She can produce, more and more,
all this She has produced before.
She can produce for people who are sensible,
who are in tune with God, not just making money for themselves,
or for their own purpose, but are thinking in totality,
thinking as to what we can achieve by doing this.
And that is how an industry can grow.
Now we see in Japan so much industry has grown,
but no spirituality. They are not at all happy people.
Their children are suffering, families are suffering.
Money cannot get the total well being of a human being.
So a balance has to be drawn.
Especially in our country, thank God, we didn’t have
such a fast industrialization, and that’s why we are saved
of lots of problems that the Western people are suffering,
about which the Indians are not aware.
They think you are all living in a very comfortable life there.
Industry has to go hand-in-hand with the handicrafts,
and the industrialists have to also look after the artists,
because otherwise who will look after them?
How will they bring forth the balance between the art and the industry?
And art is such a soothing thing for these hard-working people.
They work the whole day, then there is some sort of a music,
art, to console them, to give them peace, to relax them,
and a balance. So I would say that all industries
must take to some artistic ventures also, or they should also produce things.
After I was telling Rajesh many a times that you should try to produce
something artistic out of the steel scrap that is left over, will be a good idea.
They have tried something like that.
But industry should not be looked down upon
as it is looked down upon in our country.
I mean, as if industrialists are the greatest thieves
and all the politicians are saints in this country. It’s the other way around I think.
It should be treated with respect,
and should be understood that it’s very important.
And the industrialists, if they become also enlightened,
they can do a lot, not only to their own country,
but also to the people whom they are looking after.
Nel principio di Mahalakshmi,
Mahalakshmi ha diversi mudra
(posizioni delle mani).
Un mudra è quello
con la mano destra messa così.
Ora, la mano destra è per proteggere
chi sia sotto la tutela
o al servizio di un ricco
o, diciamo, di un industriale.
In India if you call somebody a rich man it’s like abusing him.
Nobody likes it, because the rich are always shown
to be the worst people, which is not so.
In My own experience it’s not so. If there’s a poor man also he could be terrible.
We have had very bad experiences now, in Ganapatipule,
of very poor people how they behaved
in a very funny manner - supposed to be poor.
Dovrebbe dunque esserci
un giusto equilibrio.
Si dovrebbe creare un giusto equilibrio
nella comprensione tra poveri e ricchi,
e tra ricchi e poveri.
Dopo un po’ si vedrà che la gente
non considererà più la ricchezza
e la povertà così importanti,
ma sarà la ricchezza dello Spirito
a diventare importante.
Così saranno le nazioni sahaj,
dove la ricchezza del cuore,
la spiritualità,
l’unione con il Divino diverranno
la più grande benedizione per tutti.
Ma stiamo ancora lottando per arrivare
a questo stato – per molti è così –
e ancora cadiamo
in capricci materialistici
o in qualche stupida preoccupazione.
Occorre fare attenzione
a tutte queste cose.
Se riuscirete a mantenere così,
e a far avanzare più rapidamente
questo carro di un nuovo progresso,
creeremo un nuovo mondo di armonia,
pace, gioia, amore totali.
Ma siete solo voi che dovete farlo.
Io non posso; se avessi potuto farlo io non
vi avrei chiesto di unirvi a Sahaja Yoga.
È come per i cavalli e l’auriga:
i cavalli devono essere guidati;
non è l’auriga a tirare il carro.
Allo stesso modo voi dovete comprendere
la vostra responsabilità:
quello che stiamo facendo noi
è il lavoro più importante.
Non sto parlando solo di industria
o di lavoro e capitale,
ma del benessere complessivo.
Certo, tutte queste cose ne sono
parte integrante, non c’è dubbio;
ma l’equilibrio dovrebbe essere
con la totalità,
quindi dobbiamo pensare
ad un benessere totale.
Quando si inizia a pensare
al benessere globale,
la prima cosa che dovrebbe
venirci in mente è:
“Siamo capaci di realizzarlo? Lo siamo?
Abbiamo noi il totale benessere interiore
oppure no? Lo abbiamo?”.
Noi ci preoccupiamo ancora
se l’aereo arriva o meno.
Insomma, siamo ancora così terra terra,
così piccoli, così limitati.
Con un bandhan potete controllare
qualunque aereo, qualunque atmosfera;
(mentre), insomma, eccovi ancora qui
a preoccuparvi di cose che
sono completamente
sotto il vostro controllo.
Questa totalità è dunque
qualcosa su cui riflettere:
“Cos’è questa totalità
di cui parla Madre?”.
In questa totalità deve essere creato
un mondo fatto di gente,
e creato da gente, che sia senza paura.
Questa paura deve scomparire.
Dietro tanto assurdo nervosismo
c’è la paura.
Per questo ciò che Lei fa è concederci
"abhayadan", sicurezza.
Sotto la Sua protezione siete
al di là della paura, siete protetti.
Ma se non volete credere in voi stessi
e non volete credere nella Sua protezione,
nessuno può aiutarvi
perché per voi è tutto illusorio.
Qualunque impresa si intraprenda
non si dovrebbe avere paura,
perché Dio è con voi.
È un fatto, è la verità.
Provateci.
Quando però ci provate attraverso il vostro
ego, cadete nella trappola della paura.
Ho constatato che le persone egoiste
sono le più impaurite
e allarmate perché
creano panico negli altri
e quindi pensano che un giorno
possa accadere anche a loro.
When the English were here, first of all, in India,
we were all frightened of them. Now I see
that in England every English family is frightened of others.
They’ll only open a chink of the door to see who is there,
and shut it. They’re so frightened. I’m surprised,
they are the same English who ruled us here.
And we were so bewitched before them and now
they are the ones who are frightened of us;
because when a person who is egoistical tries to dominate others
he sees himself in the mirror and thinks
that the other person will dominate him.
That’s how this fear creeps in, into our minds,
and we start getting all kinds of these stupid tantrums
out of this mythical fear.
La paura è creata soltanto dal nostro ego.
Chi non ha ego non avrà paura:
non ha fatto male a nessuno, perché
quindi dovrebbe avere qualche paura?
Un uomo o una donna così
saranno protetti da Dio
perché ci pensa Dio.
Quando arrendete il vostro ego a Dio,
assume Lui il controllo.
Ma a chi ha ego, Lui dice:
“Va bene, fai pure,
usa il tuo ego, prova a proteggerti
da solo, sbattici la testa!”.
Così stanno le cose.
Pertanto, quando parlo
di benessere totale,
parlo del vostro proprio benessere totale.
Quindi, per prima cosa, la paura
dovrebbe uscire completamente
dalle vostre menti,
se credete in Dio Onnipotente.
Dite: “Tu sei Dio Onnipotente, Tu sei
Onnipotente…”, ma sono soltanto parole.
Se credete che Dio è onnipotente
e siete connessi con Lui,
perché dovreste aver paura di qualcosa?
Ma quando si dice di non aver paura,
viene fuori un altro estremo:
“Noi non abbiamo paura,
possiamo fare quel che vogliamo,
possiamo far tutto da soli,
non dobbiamo informarne nessuno”.
Dovete dire a Dio tutto ciò che fate,
dovete chiedere il Suo permesso,
dovete informarlo
nel Suo darbar, alla Sua corte,
dicendo: “Signore, noi stiamo pensando
di fare questo e questo…”.
Invece pensate di essere voi Dio.
Non lo siete.
Ecco perché l’altra faccia
dell’assenza di paura
è questa sorta di comportamento arbitrario
che è molto pericoloso per Sahaja Yoga,
per voi stessi e per chiunque altro.
La seconda paura, insomma, che ho io ...
è che, se vi dico qualcosa,
il novantanove per cento di voi capisce che
è per il vostro bene, a vostro vantaggio;
però c’è l’uno per cento di gente
che può reagire
perché ha troppo ego e non lo accetterà,
perché non pensa al proprio bene.
Non capiscono che se io dico loro qualcosa
è solo per dare completezza e totalità.
Al contrario assumono
un atteggiamento molto sbagliato
e questa è un’altra cosa senza senso.
Quindi ormai si deve sviluppare
una specie di indifferenza
verso questo tipo di persone
che, senza motivo, vanno
all’altro limite dell’autodistruzione
e non vogliono vedere il punto essenziale
di tutto ciò che vi dico.
Soltanto io posso dirvelo; chi altri?
Io devo dirvi ciò che non va in voi,
ciò che avete fatto di sbagliato,
e allora dovete correggerlo.
Questo è un altro tipo
di reazione che si ha.
Significa che costoro non
sono interessati al proprio bene,
non sono interessati
al bene dei loro figli,
non sono interessati al bene
del loro paese o del mondo intero.
Perché allora siete venuti in Sahaja Yoga?
Ponetevi questa domanda.
Certo, per ascendere.
Ma ascendere per cosa?
Supponiamo di prendere una lampadina:
a quale scopo? Dobbiamo prendere
la lampadina, ma a quale scopo?
Dobbiamo accendere la luce.
Se però questa lampadina
non dà luce di nessun tipo,
a che serve averla?
Allo stesso modo,
a che serve venire in Sahaja Yoga
se non riuscite a diventare
la luce del Divino?
So all of you, each one of you, is not at all a small person;
no one; but you don’t realize what you are;
still have those funny conditionings by which you think
you are no good. All of you can come up,
and see so many people. If they take to total benevolence
within themselves it will manifest itself outside; absolutely; it’s a fact.
Then the attention is very important.
The attention should be on your own perfection
and on your total benevolence. This is also another point people miss,
that they start finding faults with others
instead of finding faults with themselves.
As a result, if you look at others, what will you get out of it?
I just don’t understand. If somebody is wrong,
he’s doing something evil, he's bad, even if you put attention to him,
what will you do about it? But if you have something wrong,
you have every right, you have every control,
and you can correct yourself. This is especially Indian quality,
is to find faults with others.
They’ll never see that what’s wrong with us.
All the time the attention is involved in finding with faults with others.
Then how can we improve? On the contrary,
if you start seeing faults, you get faulty much more.
It’s a copycat nature of human beings.
They see somebody doing like this,
“Oh Mother, he’s a Sahaja yogi, he does like this,
so what’s the harm if I do?”
But who says he’s a Sahaja yogi?
So ‘Sahaja yogi’ is not a brand, it's not a certificate,
it’s not a kind of a organization, but it is your own status
that you have achieved. Anybody can say,
“I’m a Sahaja Yogi.” After all I cannot stop him from saying.
I’m not such a ...(unclear). Even I have seen some mad people,
they are Sahaja yogis, for years together they’re mad,
but they’re Sahaja yogis. But you have to see for yourself,
am I a Sahaja yogi or not? Before certifying yourself,
why don’t you find out? But despite that, I must say,
it's such a satisfaction. I never expected that so many people
will get their realization to begin with, never.
I mean, I knew that it was en masse modus operandi I have developed,
but I never expected. But it has happened,
and even now I have to expect that all of you
will achieve the highest, highest positions, the paramapada (Sanskrit word),
as I said, like the North Pole, or like the Meru; absolutely atala (Indian word)
‘which cannot be disturbed’. So that’s My hope,
and I’m sure you will all comply with it.
(Talk continues in Marathi then returns to English)
I’ll tell you in English. I have told you many a times
about Namadeva and Gorakumbhar, how Gorakumbhar,
when he saw Namadeva, Namadeva saw Gorakumbhar
was kneading the clay for his pottery,
he just went and stood before him stunned.
And what he says that, “I have come to see here the formless”
(that’s the vibrations). “But the Formless is in a form”
This is the appreciation one should have,
one Sahaja yogi should have for another.
Every Sahaja yogi is a gem.
Even the thought of a gem should bring joy to you.
In every life, every style, in every areas, every dimensions,
one should have this kind of a feeling. Muslims, Hindus, Christians,
we do not accept. For us we are all Sahaja yogis,
and we have faith in all the religions, not some above.
We have faith in every thing. As well as we worship Rama
we worship Muhammad Sahib also, same way, no less.
As we worship Brahmadeva, or as we worship,
we say, Dattatreya, we worship Zoroaster, there’s no difference at all,
same way. There’s a big difference in having just a same,
what you call, the same respect; it’s not that;
but we worship the same way, so there’s no question
of differentiating each other; nor on country-wise, nothing.
And whatever defects we have, we see to it
that this has come from our country;
which I see many Sahaja yogis tell Me, “This is typical English,
this is typically French, this is typically Italian.”
They themselves tell Me. But main thing one has to understand is this,
that in Sahaja Yoga we have lost all these boundaries; nothing is there.
We have reached that state where we are all one.
And the idea of any Sahaja yogi whatsoever,
and any individual Sahaja yogi, or a group of Sahaja yogis,
should fill you up with joy and a kind of a wave of joy
which is continuously coming, because they are in the form of joy,
peace. If this appreciation is reached, then only one can say
that you are Sahaja yogis, and that is one of the tests I have seen.
You love Me very much I know, all of you,
but unless and until you love each other how am I going to be happy?
So today specially, this Mahalakshmi principle,
when it is awakened within you, then you get out of a Lakshmi principle,
which makes you a little selfish maybe, self-centered,
and you get into a new dimension of searching,
of searching the higher value system, something beyond,
without any limitations. And that Mahalakshmi principle
is really nothing, in essence, if you see, is nothing but you are seeking the universal love,
in the essence it is that. We don’t love people
because they belong to some country, because they look like this,
that this is this; nothing; we love them
only because they are our part and parcel, we are one with them.
So those who are today worshipping Mahalakshmi should feel
how many worshippers of Mahalakshmi are there,
and they are all our own. It’s such a great feeling.
Otherwise, in Maharashtra especially, I must say, it was horrible,
one Sahaja yogi goes to preach in another Sahaj, another district.
(Background noise) The district leader starts fighting, just like this sound,
“Who are you to come here? I’m the leader”
Instead of respecting him, and making him a welcome guest,
asking him what can you help, there’s a big fight.
It’s really surprising. How can it happen?
When Namadeva went to Punjab, Guru Nanak Sahib respected him;
not only that, but he told him that,
“You write now in Punjabi language also.”
I have seen such a big book written by Namadeva. Can you imagine?
He included all the great saints of Maharashtra in his Granth Sahib,
because he knew that these are realized souls, they are higher souls.
But these Sikhs are only reading it; nothing goes into their heads.
What can you do? So at that time,
if these saints could love each other,
could express themselves in such a manner, why not we,
the Sahaja yogis from all over the world?
So I would say now, that, let us see, it’s a very nice program of Ras
(Indian word) we’ll be having, where all the Indian and foreign Sahaja yogis are going to be together,
and are going to dance together. All such things are there.
So don’t sit in groups, but mix up with others, know them,
and this is what we are going to know;
each and every Sahaja yogi of the whole world.
Is very important for Me that you should love each other.
It will really soothe Me the most, it will give Me the greatest joy,
the greatest achievement, and the fulfillment of My life.
If somebody is really, definitely wrong, you just write to Me
and I will know, because immediately I’ll know from vibrations.
Nobody can befool Me, that’s one thing for sure.
Some people say that, “Somebody has told this to Mother.
” Nothing can be told to Mother, you don’t know;
I am too cunning for all this. Nobody can tell Me anything;
I know each and every... I play around a little bit,
but I know each and every person. I give them a chance
to hang themselves for a time being.
But never believe that anybody can befool Me, and tell anything.
I listen to everyone, and you can try that.
If you love another Sahaja yogi,
this loving process itself is so joy giving.
When you first saw Me this time on the stage, you felt that way,
because this process of loving is the greatest joy-giving thing.
So be happy, be joyous. If some people are missing the plane,
well and good, you will live with other Sahaja yogis,
you are after all, you are somewhere in the world, you are not lost.
Even if you are in the sea, you are there, on the plane you are there.
What does it matter? Why is it so important
that this plane must be reserved, and you must worry about this plane,
“I must get out at this time” There’s no need.
Wherever you are you are with Sahaja yogis,
so why worry?
You are, that’s the point. Like many people ask Me,
“Mother You travel so much, how is it You don’t get tired?”
Because I never think I am travelling, I just think, “I am,”
that’s all. Whether in the plane or here, or there,
I am just there. I have to tell Me I am traveling,
then again I forget. So you are,
whether you are here or in England, or anywhere,
or you are here or you are there. So why to worry?
Specially with the plane - I think there is something wrong
with the Western genetics - the plane enters into their Kundalini,
I think, and they go so bizarre with the airplanes.
Something I’ve never been able to understand it.
I’ve given them so many lessons to show that don’t do all this nonsense,
but still they go on doing like this.
But if I tell them they feel guilty,but again they do it.
Next time if your plane is eight o’clock,
go at nine o’clock, the plane will wait for you till ten o’clock,
take it from Me. It has happened; so many can tell this.
So many experiences are there. I mean, we haven’t written them down,
but people know how planes have been delayed for us.
I have never missed a plane all My life, and when I missed it,
it was with a purpose; these big things happened.
So it is important, it’s a drama.
The worry should be one:
“Why can’t I love everyone as I love myself?”
I tell you only this universal love will give you
that confidence and that higher status.
Why these saints suffered for you?
Why did Christ suffer for you?
Why Muhammad Sahib suffered for you?
Why anybody talked to you about Dharma?
Why Gnaneshwara wrote Gnaneshwari? Why?
What did they get?
This satisfaction of their expression of universal love.
All the great poets, William Blake or anyone,
whatever they have done, it’s just
because they have this universal love and they want to express it.
Why not you do it?
So if you want your Mahalakshmi principle
to be all the time burning, then please
see that you love each and every Sahaja yogi.
That’s the message today. I hope you’ll understand that.
May God bless you.